When a problem arises,
we want to know about it so we can jump in and fix the problem.
Our monitoring system should send out alerts with
hints on what's going on with the server or device.
With systems like Prometheus,
we have a lot of channels of communication that we can use.
We can send out alerts via e-mail, chat tool,
desktop notifications, phone calls,
and the list goes on.
Before we get into how to set up alerts,
let's talk briefly about how alerts can be misused.
What happens when you've heard a constant beeping noise for several hours?
You stop noticing it of course.
This describes the process of desensitization.
Did you know that that can happen with alerts from monitoring systems?
It's such a common thing that there's even a term for it, alert fatigue.
If a team is constantly bombarded with alerts that they don't need,
they begin to ignore them.
They've become desensitized to the alerts.
They're suffering from alert fatigue.
When an alert sounds,
that actually is important,
the team doesn't even notice it and their response time is delayed.
What's the solution? Either send out
only important alerts or give the team
a way to filter out alerts that are not relevant to them.
Whatever the solution you choose,
if you want your alerts to mean something,
make sure you avoid alert fatigue.